|Date|Person|Description|Component/Module|Details|
|----|------|-----------|----------------|-------|
March 31, 2016 |Joe Vaughan |AIRPACT-4 nightly runs turned off. AIRPACT5 takes over. |AQSIM*pl scripting on Rainier at UW... |Do to the fact that AIRPACT5 was running nightly, AIRPACT-4 was turned off. 
February 4, 2016 |Farren Herron-Thorpe |Updated Fuel Loading in FCCSv2 |BlueSky Fire |Added 1 inch of duff depth to all fuel categories in FCCSv2 
November 5, 2015 |Joe Vaughan |UW changes over to WRF 3.7.1 |WRF updated to 3.7.1 |UW updated to WRF 3.7.1  
October 30, 2015 |Farren |Updated RWC Emissions for WA | |Used 2014 NEI (same as AP5 inventory) to update RWC emissions for WA. This reduces emissions modestly. 
October 13, 2015 |Farren |Updated RWC Emissions for WA and OR |SMOKE |Used 2011 NEI (same as AP5 inventory) to update RWC emissions for WA and OR 
July 17, 2015 |Farren |Changes to Fire Processing |BlueSky / SMARTFIRE2 / SMOKE |Several Changes: 1) BlueSky Canada is now used to incorporate Canadian fires into AIRPACT. 2) All fire processing is done with SMOKE 3.5.1 and the memory allocation error is gone, 3) the daily fire locations kml layer includes updated formatting, 4) the minimum fire size was changed from 40 acres to 0.001 acres, 5) SMARTFIRE2 is now queried for USA fires at 10:15 pm PDT (instead of 7 pm) to allow more fire ingestion, 6) scripting in place to get yesterday's fires from AirFire when WSU BlueSky fails 
December 1, 2014 |Serena Chung |Woodstove PM2.5 tracer added |CMAQ |A woodstove PM2.5 tracer has been added. Woodstove PM2.5 is emitted and transported (advection, diffusion, vertical transport). This woodstove PM2.5 tracer does NOT undergo chemical reaction or deposition; it does not have initial or boundary conditions. 
May 28, 2014 |Farren |Update to default stack parameters |non-temporal point source emissions (intermediate files) |Not all pt sources in AIRPACT have stack parameters associated with them. The pstk.m3.txt file was updated to include 50 more SCCs. This will allow over 250 pt sources to get better stack parameter defaults than the fugitive default. non-temporal was run for point sources (grdmat, smkinven, spcmat) so that the intermediate files used by AIRPACT are updated. 
May 5, 2014 |Farren |Fire emissions for AIRPACT-4 upgraded |BlueSky / SMARTFIRE2 / Plume Rise |Bluesky 3.5.1 is now running on aeolus (virtual server) and is configured for SMARTFIRE2. BlueSky has been configured to spin up emissions from the prior 48 hours and persist wildfires. Also, the minimum area has been set to 100 acres since any fire less than 100 acres is an unknown size. Also, this method now uses SMOKE to allocate plume rise, rather than the old method that used FEPS/BlueSky. In order to facilitate this change, the BlueSky fire_locations file is processed using python code to create daily orl files (previous method used hourly pthour files). 
January 20, 2014 |Joe Vaughan |Failure of BlueSky_3.2.0 w/ SMARTFive v1 on rainier |BlueSky_3.2.0 w/ SMARTFive v1 on rainier |BlueSky on rainier failed, apparently due to failure of SMARTFire v1 as accessed across the internet. Summary of data flow for AIRPACT4 follow. Two months in 2012, August and September, were reruns done in 2013 for both AIRPACT3 and AIRPACT4. In 2013 into 2014 (201306-201401) BlueSky with SMARTFIre (v1) was running in synchrony w/ daily forecasts for AIRPACT4. 
January 10, 2014 |Joe Vaughan |WSU revised the AIRPACT homepage at lar.wsu.edu/airpact |webpage at lar.wsu.edu/airpact |In recognition of the (perhaps permanent) interruption of AIRPACT-3, the AIRPACT4 24-hr PM2.5 animation was moved to the central panel of the homepage, and the RHS was reorganized to emphasize AIRPACT4 results. AIRPACT-3 results are still available via the Graphics Products page, from the LHS list. 
November 8, 2013 |Serena Chung |WRF run updated to use MODIS land-cover classifications instead of the USGS categories. |WRF |This change took place at UW. 
November 4, 2013 |Serena Chung |set small values of variabl OPEN in OCEANfile to zero |CMAQ |The original OCEANfile had values of ~ -1e-16 and +1e-16 for variable OPEN; these values cause numerical issues in subroutine SSEMIS (sea-salt emissions), causing aerosol surface area emission flux to approach infinity. The updated OCEANfile sets the value of OPEN to zero for these problematic cells. 
October 10, 2013 |Serena Chung |MOVES replaced MOBILES for the U.S. |SMOKE |Mobile emissions in the U.S. now uses MOVES instead of MOBILE6. (MOBILE6 is still used for Canada.) 
September 21, 2013 |Serena Chung |corrected NH4+ from MOZART-4 BCON |BCON |Previously, NH4 and 0.225xNH4NO3 (where NH4 and NH4NO3 are MOZART-4 output) were assigned to CMAQ's ANH4J, resulting in double counting of NH4 from NH4NO3. NH4 in MOZART-4 is total NH4+ and thus already includes NH4 in NH4NO4. The correction was made in MechMapping_mz4.EXT 
September 9, 2013 |Farren Herron-Thorpe |Removed STONE CONTAINER tree pulp from point source inventory. This facility no longer operates. |SMOKE Emissions Facility Codes: 30063T$9044 and 30063063-0006 |Updated pt_bs_tpy.txt so that Smurfit-Stone Container tree pulp paper mill in Missoula, MT are removed. Emissions updated by running /home/airpact4/AIRHOME/run/emis/anthro/non_temporal/run_smk_nontemporal.csh 
August 23, 2013 |Farren Herron-Thorpe |Monthly Deposition Scripting added to crontab |AIRPACT-4 Deposition |Completed setup for monthly calculation of deposition for the prior month on the 3rd day of the month. Images should be copied to the web server that night. /home/airpact4/AIRHOME/RUN/deposition/run_deposition_noarg.csh is run by crontab 
August 22, 2013 |Serena Chung |corrected double counting of point sources in Washington |SMOKE's smkinv |Prior runs used both pt_wa_tpy_030110.txt and pt_wa_tpy_030110.txt files. Now only pt_wa_tpy_030110.txt is being used for Washington. 
August 13, 2013 |Farren Herron-Thorpe |Updated stack info for Boardman Coal Plant |Point Source Emissions Input to SMOKE |Sally Otterson updated pt_or_tpy.txt so that Boardman Coal Plant would have stack height, velocity, temperature, etc correctly stipulated. Emissions updated by running /home/airpact4/AIRHOME/run/emis/anthro/non_temporal/run_smk_nontemporal.csh 
July 22, 2013 |Farren Herron-Thorpe |Ammonia Point Emissions in N. CA fixed |Point Emissions Inventory (bordering states) |A problem was found for Shasta Cty, CA for two point NH3 sources. Erroneous entries from inventory (2008) appear to be annual emisisons for NH3 provided in pounds instead of tons: 06089 45162843 WHEELABRATOR SHASTA E.C.I. NH3 49200 06089 45162851 BURNEY FOREST PRODUCTS NH3 225000 These emission rates were located and fixed after confirming the discrepancy by checking the 2008 NEI. File changed was on aeolus: /data/airpact4/smoke/emissions/point/pt_bs_tpy.txt (divided by 2000 pounds/ton with result that matches the NEI). Update was made by rerunning /home/airpact4/AIRHOME/run/emis/anthro/non_temporal/run_smk_nontemporal.csh  
June 20, 2013 |Farren Herron-Thorpe |Isoprene emission factor changed for the cells that contain GreenWood poplar plantations |MEGANv2.04 input file EFMAP_LAI_airpact4.csv |See GreenWoodFractions.csv (used the following formula: EFnew = EFold(1-AreaFr) + 20,000AreaFr ) 
June 20, 2013 |Serena Chung |Isoprene emission factor changed for the cells near Boardman that contain poplar plantation. |MEGANv2.04 input file EFMAP_LAI_airpact4.csv  |EF increased to 20000 micrograms/m2/h from 1326.36, 1358.14, 1090.00, 194.179 for cell (i,j) =(113,149); (114, 149); (113, 150); (114, 150), respectively. 
June 1, 2013 |Serena Chung |fire emissions are now included. |SMARTFire, BlueSky, and SMOKE |Fire emissions are now included using SMARTFire v1 to get fire information, BlueSky v3.2.0 to calculate emissions, and SMOKE (mostly v2.7) to produce CMAQ-ready file. 
February 4, 2013 |Serena Chung |default boundary condiition created  |CMAQ/BCON |Default boundary conditions are monthly-mean of MOPITT CO-assimilated 2009 MOZART-4 results. The default will be used when MOZART-4 forecast is not available in time for CMAQ run.  
December 21, 2012 |Serena Chung |switched from Kain-Fritsch to the simple Arakawa Schubert convective scheme |WRF |The change was done at UW. This switch removed strange convective bands over the ocean. 
November 12, 2012 |Serena Chung |PM2.5 emission bug over agricultural area in Idaho has been fixed. |SMOKE |airpact-4 was re-run starting on Oct 29, 2012. 
October 11, 2012 |Serena Chung |airpact-4 now uses WRFV3.4.1 with different vertical levels. |WRF |This change was done at UW. 
July 1, 2012 |Joe Vaughan |MOPITT CO assimilation into MOZART4 ended July 2012 |BCON from Louisa Emmons (NCAR) MOZART4 |email of December 16, 2013 from Louisa Emmons: Hi Joe, The MOPITT assimilation got turned off in July 2012. There was an update to the MOPITT retrieval version and the file format changed, as well as some fundamental changes to the retrievals. Our post-doc is working on getting an assimilation system set up with CAM-chem, which will use the new version of MOPITT, and eventually also IASI CO. I hope to switch the forecasts over to using that in Jan or Feb. Louisa 
October 20, 2011 |Joe Vaughan |MCIP extraction from WRF 4-km domain shifted with change at UW |MCIP run from mcip3.6_AP4.csh and mcip3.6_wrf_4km_AP4.csh |[X0 changed from 18 to 78. Changed from "InTerFile = $InTerDir/TERRAIN_DOMAIN3" to "$InTerDir/geo_em.d03.nc" and changed "/home/disk/mm5rt/domains/apr08" to "/home/disk/rainier_empact/nairpact/domains/2011-10-17", /] 
September 1, 2011 |Joe Vaughan |Created mcip_rerun.exe for MCIP3-6 |MCIP on rainier |[created a version of MCIP3-6 exe to permit spanning archived WRF files, ] 
January 19, 2011 |Serena Chung |This site is created. | | 
