|Date|Person|Description|Component/Module|Details|
|----|------|-----------|----------------|-------|
June 17, 2018 |Joe Vaughan |ClearSky2 was turned off and some codes archived. |rainier: mcip codes remain. aeolus: codes archived |On rainier the MCIP codes were left in place but the call from AQ_SIM.pl was removed. On aeolus the codes were tar'd zipped and burned to CD-ROM. 
April 26, 2017 |Joe Vaughan |put call to run_emis_fire_SMK3.6.csh in loop |/home/airpact5/CLEARHOME/RUN/smoke/run_emis_SMK3.6.csh |SMOKE sometimes fails, idiosyncratically and anomalously, so this scripting was put inside a loop that tests for success before exiting. 
April 19, 2017 |Jen Hinds |Created ClearSky Demo page for Public |http://www.lar.wsu.edu/clearsky/csky2_demo.html |A ClearSky page was created that shows how an animation is displayed, using a entirely arbitrary burning scenario that is unrelated to any actual grower or burner and thus exposes no information about which anyone should have heartburn. 
March 13, 2017 |Joe Vaughan |Revisions to utilize SMOKEv3.6 |Most of the emissions codes |For the change to SMOKEv3.6 changes were made to boht the presmoke and the smoke scripts. 
October 4, 2016 |Joe Vaughan |Added write of DONE time.  |~airpact4/CLEARHOME/RUN/qsub_master_csky2_cctm_30S.csh |Write of done time is into /data/airpact4/CLEARRUN/DONE. By "echo ${YEAR}${MONTH}${DAY} `date +'%C%y/%m/%d %H:%M'` >! $AIRDONE/${YEAR}${MONTH}${DAY}00" 
August 6, 2015 |Joe Vaughan |Updated to using SMOKE3.5.1 |SMOKE called under CLEARHOME/RUN/smoke |All scripts labeled w/ _080615 created for this update to using SMOKE3.5.1 
June 11, 2015 |Joe Vaughan |Added So Id scenarios and corrected others' fuel loads |ClearSky2 scripting and default data files |Implemented a new 30 tracer version which accommodates new scenarios by Brian Sines. 
June 11, 2015 |Joe Vaughan and Jen Hinds |Changed from 24-hr animation to 16=hr animations |webserver software |Because agricultural burns are not started before 8 AM, we dropped display of those early hours to shorten the time per loop and cut our reliably uninteresting hours without smoke. 
November 7, 2014 |Joe Vaughan |Added scenario ECY-IDEQ_NPT, that is combination of five. |qsub_clearsky2_102814.csh & plot routine run_ncl_hourly_named_web_combo.csh  |combines scenarios ECYatERO_Med-Whit IDEQ_BoundaryMed IDEQ_CentSMA-Med IDEQ_KootenaiMed NPT_Scenario04 into graphics for ECY-IDEQ_NPT. 
September 10, 2014 |Joe Vaughan |Crop Residue Disposal/Burning defaults set up |ClearSky2 emissions scripting |Default burning scenarios: 5 for ECY at ERO, 5 for NPT, 8 for IDEQ and one for JKV (emanating from junction of borders of Id, OR & WA) 
July 7, 2014 |Joe Vaughan |ClearSky2 Web site set up by Jen Hinds |ClearSky2 Website |located at http://lar.wsu.edu/clearsky2/csky2.html 
October 20, 2011 |Joe Vaughan |Modified ClearSky to shift with change in WRF 4-km domain at UW |MCIP running from mcip3.3_wrf_old-full_Oct2011.csh ; also now 'catting' centLatLon_45-118 to calmet6.2_to_netCDF.exe |MCIP was running with "BTRIM = 0" for the full 4-km WRF domain. With the shift in domain, now "BTRIM = -1" and "X0 = 61", "Y0 = 1", "NCOLS = 343" and "NROWS = 262". IfTer has been "F". The change in the WRF 4-km domain changed the MCIP results' central LAT and LON, so the contol file passed to convert calmet.dat to calmet_*_*d files, centLatLon*, was also modified. 
February 14, 2011 |Joe Vaughan |Fixed bug in Deafaults scripting |run_defaults.csh |When clearsky would run early enough to start defaults before the day being modeled, the Day-of-week value was wrong, cuasing the wrong est of defaults to be run. Added scripting to detect when date being modeled didn't match run date, and apply a correction.
